---
layout: post
date: 21/04/2019
title: Learning Pandoc
theme: dark
img: "/assets/img/post-images/Autumn.jpg"
---

> _Pandoc_ is a universal document editor

How I see Pandoc being beneficial is in the conversion of markdown files through to either PDF or html. Pandoc is able to convert these files through engines such as LaTex or wkhtmltopdf:

> _LaTex_ is a scientific plain text language

> _wkhtmltopdf_ is a html to pdf conversion application

Two helpful links in the usage of Pandoc are:

* [Pandoc Demos](https://pandoc.org/demos.html)
* [Pandoc Documentation](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html)

###### General usage of Pandoc

Files can be converted in the command window using the command:

```
pandoc -f markdown -t html -s input.md -o output.html
```

* -s
  * specifies standalone file that contains the header as well as the body of the md file.

* -o
  * specifies that it is being outputted to the following file

* -f
  * specifies the extension of the input file

* -t
  * specifies the extension of the output file

> Note: the directory of the command window must be the same as the location of the input file (directory can be changed using _cd_)


###### Creating PDFs

In general when creating PDFs Pandoc will utilize LaTex to create the PDF file.
The problem that arises with this is that the formatting of the PDF outputted is specified inside a LaTex file type. _As of yet this format is unknown to myself so is rather annoying._ To change the formatting of the output either a .latex template must be specified or the default template at _(C:\Users\[username]\AppData\Roaming\pandoc\templates\default.latex)_ must be modified.

However, I have found two ways around this.

1. Using wkhtmltopdf as the engine for pandoc. This creates the pdf file via a html file. As a result a .css template can be used to format the output.

~~~
pandoc -t html5 --css pandoc.css input.md -o output.pdf
~~~

2. Similar to above through creating an html file and then printing this to pdf. This therefore create the same result as above but adds a step.

The problem that I see with these two methodologies is in the printing of images and blocks. The layout may position these on a page boundary hence cutting them off. This may be able to be remedied through specifying the container sizes in the css template.

###### Other command line configurations

* --template=FILE
  * specifies the file that defines the template of the output. The file type required differs depending on the output file type.


* --table-of-contents
  * Includes an automatically generated table of contents

* --toc-depth=NUMBER (default=3)
  * Specifies the number of section levels to include in the table of contents

* --mathjax
  * Specifies the formatting style for LaTex
---
pandoc --mathjax -f markdown -t html -s tiral-report.md -o output3.html --css file.min.css
---
